I think singing on a piano really has to
do it you get them you get a chance to
play the note once if you're a violinist
a wind player a singer you get a chance
to alter that note while you're singing
it or playing it you get a chance to
change it if something doesn't go right
from the beginning you you have a chance
to make it louder to make it softer on
the piano once you've pressed that first
note you have very little option it's
going to die and and the better the
piano also the longer the note will hold
and that's what you hope for because you
really have you have to purse a fake it
you have to do something with your left
hand to make your right hand seem like
it is indeed holding like it is making a
crescendo you have the support of a
conductor in an orchestra who's making
sure that the orchestra holds on the
line and because many places the notes
hold so long no matter what tempo you
play that they will be very quiet by the
end and you have nothing to do it that
you can't change it you can't do
anything about it and that's a special
thing in the piano of course another
special thing is that most
instrumentalists travel with their
instruments and either a vocalist has
their voice with them at all times or a
violinist I most violinist have the
violin with them at all times to have
the rest pianos we go and we get a
different piano at every turn so how I
played it at the recording here in
Munich might be very different from how
I would play it in a concert hall
somewhere else if I'm given another
piano even just the concert hall being
different the orchestra being different
the conductor being different the
feeling of the day and maybe it's summer
and this is winter it there's small
things which make a big difference in
how you interpret things and I love that
it's nothing's predictable and nothing
goes the same way I hope ever
it's very it's a puppy
hours of practice a day and I still
haven't really gotten an answer for it
because there's really from day to day
it depends I mean what would you count
this recording session as that practice
or was that a recording session and and
so theoretically today I only spent
maybe forty five minutes at the piano
and but then I recorded for six hours or
if I have a concert does that count as
practice and and for me of course
practice is a means to achieving my goal
which is to perform and to share music
with other people and generally speaking
I try to practice as much as I can at
home because I know my city I've lived
there for many years for my whole life
which is for me many years and because
it's something which when I'm home I
feel comfortable it's really a place
where I can think about the music I'd
like to do I can practice and I like
waking up early in the morning that's my
best time for practicing is early in the
morning I wake up with when my dad goes
to work and I start practicing around
6:00 in the morning I see the sunrise
outside my window and and and that's
really the way I like to start the day
and then of course the day develops so I
can't say I practice eight hours or five
hours or six hours and and when I travel
it's it's really much less maybe two
hours maybe three if I'm lucky and I
have the time but really it's that's
pushing it even and sometimes four but
it's an average I don't even know what
to say because it's every day different
you